Linux versus Windows.
The reason I'm including this lesson in this training is because when you need to know a lot about a
certain technology, it is good to compare one thing with another.
Like whenever you need to compare, let's say, a car, you have to have a certain comparison with other
cars.
For example, if you are buying a mercedes, you should know a few differences between Mercedes and
BMW and Audi.
So this way you can make a right decision or you will know the features that you will be getting with
your new car.
So that's why I'm comparing Linux with Windows.
So you will know exactly what the difference is, the basic difference, and you will be able to answer
any questions that come up during the interview.
The first difference between Linux and Windows is by the price.
Of course, Linux is free and not all the distributions are free.
Red Hat is not for you.
You would have to pay for subscription support.
Whereas Windows is free.
You would have to pay for it.
Is.
Linux is not user friendly.
You would have to run user commands to get your task in various windows.
You have good way to do most of those tasks.
All you have to do is double click run the program and you're done.
Most of the things are done through the gooey reliability.
Linux is very reliable.
Oftentimes you it runs for months and years, but you don't even have to reboot it.
In Windows.
It often requires a reboot.
Now Windows have done a lot better.
Its operating system has become a lot better and stable where you don't need to reboot or it doesn't
crash.
Oftentimes software.
Most of the softwares are enterprise level software that runs in Linux, whereas Windows there's a much
larger selection of software, for example office games, utilities and a lot more.
Also, Windows offers are like chat, chat and social media software's multitasking now.
Multitasking is one of the basic reason why people came out with UNIX and the next type of operating
system, because back then they needed some type of operating system that could perform multitasking.
And for those who don't do not know what multitasking in terms of operating system, it's about running
multiple processes at the same time.
Whereas in Windows you could run multiple multitasking, but you do need a lot of CPU and memory.
Now please do remember, I'm not trying to say Windows bad or Linux is the best.
I'm trying to compare some of the basic features.
Windows have done amazing job in the past few years where they have come up with the tools like Active
Directory, domain controller, Microsoft Exchange and you ask your server running on Windows.
They have done an amazing job and they have pioneered the market in that.
So there are a few things that are very good in Windows and in Linux.
They are in terms of programming security wise.
Linux is very secure and Windows is somewhat secure.
And why is that is because Windows is more vulnerable to to hacking, because it is facing the Internet,
because people run like social media type of things or chatting sessions and a lot of different things
that they run and they are there accessing the Internet.
In Linux, you don't access the Internet.
Open source Linux is open to public.
There's the code is out there.
You can modify the code, you can come up with your own operating system where it's windows, you cannot
do anything.
It is owned by Microsoft.
You cannot have the code open or revealed to anyone.